1. What is Intrusion Detection and its classification based on either detection approaches or deployment?


intrusion detection monitors abnormal activities or potential threats in a network or system and issue alarms in a timely manner 

detection

deployment would be intrusion prevention systems 

IDS is a tool to implement this technology. its main function is to identify and report possible attack behaviors or policy violations 



2. What are the main differences between virus and worm?

**Worm**
is a standalone malicious program capable of self-replication and spreading through networks, typically without needing to attach itself to other files or programs 

- independent

**Virus**
attaches itself to other programs or files and requires user interaction to activate and spread


3. What is firewall and the four main types?

- a firewall filters information that is sent and received from outside the network, it is software that resides on the networks gateway
- restricts access between a protected network and other networks 

- packet filtering firewall
- stateful inspection firewall
- proxy firewall
- application layer firewall


4. What is IPSec and its main protocols? Briefly explain each of them.

ipsec is **internet protocol security**
its main protocols are 
AH
ESP
SA

or 

**Application header**
which verifies the data that whether it comes from a trusted source and hasnt been changed

**Encapsulating security payload**

performs authentication and also encryption of data

**security association**

defines sec parameters

5. What are the two IPSec operation modes? Briefly explain each of them.


transport mode and tunnel mode

transport: operates on the payload of data, of the original packet


tunnel: original packet encapsulated into a new one, payload is original packet

6. What is SSL/TLS?

**SSL**
Secure sockets layer - network layer security 
**TLS**
Transport layer security - transport layer security 



7. Please describe SSL Handshake Protocol with each step?

• Negotiates the encryption to be used
• Establishes a shared session key
• Authenticates the server
• Authenticates the client (optional)
• Completes the session establishment


8. What are the TLS core functions?

 Data encryption: Encryption algorithms (such as AES) are used to protect the
confidentiality of data and prevent eavesdropping.
• Data integrity: Hash algorithms (such as SHA-256) are used to ensure that data has not
been tampered with during transmission.
• Identity authentication: The identity of the server (and client) is verified through digital
certificates to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks



9. What is VPN?

Virtual Private Networks

allowing users to remotely access private network
resources while protecting the confidentiality and integrity of the data.

 VPN creates an encrypted tunnel between the user's device and the target
network, ensuring that the data cannot be eavesdropped or tampered with
during transmission.