1. What does network security concern with?  
protection of usability, integrity, confidentiality, and availability of your network and data



2. Are you able to describe different network types, e.g., LAN, WLAN, PAN, WAN?  

LAN = local area network
WLAN = Wireless LAN
PAN = personal area network
WAN = wide area network


3. Can you describe OSI model and its layers?  


application

presentation
	The presentation layer is primarily concerned with the syntax of the data itself
	for applications to send and consume.


session
	The session layer is responsible for network coordination between two
	separate applications in a session. A session manages the beginning and
	ending of a one-to-one application connection and synchronization conflicts

Transport Layer
Network Layer
Data-link Layer
Physical layer


4. Can you describe TCP/IP model and its layers?  

application
transport 
network
network access layer

ip = internet protocol, delivering packets from the soruce host to the dest
icmp = internet message protocol, encapsulated within IP datagrams, and is responsible for providing hosts with information about network problems
ARP = address resolution protocol  = aim to find hardware address of a host from a known ip address



5. From the security aspect, what is the weakest layer under the OSI model?  

**The data link layer** is considered to be the weakest OSI model, as LANs traditionally were under the adimn on a signle org


6. Which layer the 'packet' is associated?  

the network layer, as the network layer is the transfer of data in the form of packets


7. Can you describe the TCP three-way handshake?  
tcp provides reliable communication with positive ack with 


SYN 
SYN + ACK
ACK




8. What are DoS and DDoS attack?
denial of service, and distributed denial of service


- dos render computer function, application or device unavailable to intended users. typically by flooding with alot of requests

ddos = to stop a service, server or network in the dos way